#Active-Directory 

# mitm6

Due to the fairly new implementation of IPv6 to overcome the shortcomings of IPv4, this protocol is commonly misused by various systems or other services.

With `mitm6`, it is possible to spoof IPv6 DNS requests (targeting a single host or the whole domain/network) and latch on to the network and listen to the network traffic (IPv4/IPv6). This is one of the reliable ways to gain an initial foothold in a network.

Together with `ntlmrelayx`, it is possible to get malicious in several different ways such as; making hosts/users authenticate to the rogue proxy with fake WPAD location, relaying captured NTLM authentication to LDAP (or other services based on interest) to dump domain information, add users/computers to the domain, adding users with impersonation capabilities, etc.

### Related Articles
- [The worst of both worlds: Combining NTLM Relaying and Kerberos delegation](https://dirkjanm.io/worst-of-both-worlds-ntlm-relaying-and-kerberos-delegation/)
- [mitm6 – compromising IPv4 networks via IPv6](https://blog.fox-it.com/2018/01/11/mitm6-compromising-ipv4-networks-via-ipv6/)
- [Wagging the Dog: Abusing Resource-Based Constrained Delegation to Attack Active Directory](https://shenaniganslabs.io/2019/01/28/Wagging-the-Dog.html)
- [Another Word on Delegation](https://posts.specterops.io/another-word-on-delegation-10bdbe3cd94a)

### Attack Procedure
To dump domain data on by abusing WPAD;
- Set up `mitm6` to listen for DNS requests
		- `mitm6 -d <domain>`
- Set up `ntlmrelayx` with a fake WPAD file
		- `ntlmrelayx.py -6 -t ldaps://<IP> -wh <name>.<domain> -l <path to dump informtaion>`

\*Any name can be assigned to the fake WPAD file (specified with `-wh`), such as `fakewpd.domain.local`

Once a vulnerable request comes through, `ntlmrelayx` will attempt to dump domain information by authenticating with the captured credentials, which can be viewed in the directory specified. If captured credentials belong to a privileged user, it will attempt to create a new user on the domain, which can be used different attacks.

### Defensive measures
*extracted from above articles*

#### Mitigating mitm6
mitm6 abuses the fact that Windows queries for an IPv6 address even in IPv4-only environments. If you don’t use IPv6 internally, the safest way to prevent mitm6 is to block DHCPv6 traffic and incoming router advertisements in Windows Firewall via Group Policy. Disabling IPv6 entirely may have unwanted side effects. Setting the following predefined rules to Block instead of Allow prevents the attack from working:

-   _(Inbound) Core Networking - Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol for IPv6(DHCPV6-In)_
-   _(Inbound) Core Networking - Router Advertisement (ICMPv6-In)_
-   _(Outbound) Core Networking - Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol for IPv6(DHCPV6-Out)_

#### Mitigating WPAD abuse
If WPAD is not in use internally, disable it via Group Policy and by disabling the `WinHttpAutoProxySvc` service. Further mitigation and detection measures are discussed [in the original mitm6 blog](https://blog.fox-it.com/2018/01/11/mitm6-compromising-ipv4-networks-via-ipv6/).

#### Mitigating relaying to LDAP
Relaying to LDAP and LDAPS can only be mitigated by enabling both LDAP signing and [LDAP channel binding](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/4034879/how-to-add-the-ldapenforcechannelbinding-registry-entry).

#### Mitigating resource based delegation abuse
This is hard to mitigate as it is a legitimate Kerberos concept. The attack surface can be reduced by adding Administrative users to the `Protected Users` group or marking them as `Account is sensitive and cannot be delegated`, which will prevent any impersonation of that user via delegation. Further mitigations and detection methods are [available here](https://shenaniganslabs.io/2019/01/28/Wagging-the-Dog.html).

