#Active-Directory #Post-Exploitation 

# Pass the Hash or Password

Hashes are not entirely useless as well. Both hashes and known passwords can be passed around the network to check for account reuse. `crackmapexec` is a toolkit that is going to help with pass the hash/password attack.

### Passing known Domain User credentials
Known domain user credentials can be easily passed around the network with the following command;

``` shell
> crackmapexec smb <CIDR> -u <user> -d <domain> -p <password>
```

This will return a list of hosts which can be authenticated into with the given credentials and if it has administrative access to the machine (Pwn3d!). It should be noted that attempting password spraying on domain accounts can lead to accounts being locked, causing disturbance.

### Passing Local Hashes
With administrative access, same credentials can be used to dump useful system information with `secretsdump` of the "Impacket" suite;

``` shell
> secretsdump <domain>/<user>:<password>@<target IP>
```

This will also dump local SAM hashes (NTLMv1) which can be cracked or passed around the network. Local accounts does not have a risk of account lock, therefore it is safe to attempt password spraying. This is mainly done to check for account reuse.

To crack NTLM hashes with hashcat;
``` shell
> hashcat -m 1000 hashes.txt <wordlist>
```

To pass NTLM hashes for local authentication;
``` shell
> crackmapexec smb <CIDR> -u <username> -h <hash> --local-auth
```

\*Only **NTLMv1 hashes can be passed** this way.

### Defensive measures
- Limit account/password reuse
- Limit local administrative privileges
- Use stronger passwords
- Privilege Access Management (PAM)

