#Active-Directory #Post-Exploitation 

# Token Impersonation

"In a nutshell, tokens are just like web cookies. They are a temporary key that allows you to access the system and network without having to provide credentials each time you access a file. Incognito exploits this the same way cookie stealing works, by replaying that temporary key when asked to authenticate. There are two types of tokens: delegate and impersonate. Delegate tokens are created for ‘interactive’ logons, such as logging into the machine or connecting to it via Remote Desktop. Impersonate tokens are for ‘non-interactive’ sessions, such as attaching a network drive or a domain logon script."

"The other great things about tokens? They persist until a reboot. When a user logs off, their delegate token is reported as an impersonate token, but will still hold all of the rights of a delegate token."

-> *[Fun with Incognito - Metasploit Unleashed](https://www.offensive-security.com/metasploit-unleashed/fun-incognito/)*

### Token Impersonation with Incognito (Metasploit)
By having a foothold on the victim computer with a `meterpreter` session, a token impersonation attack can be carried out with the built-in `Incognito` module.

``` shell
meterpreter > load incognito # Load the module
meterpreter > help # Get a list commands available for the module
meterpreter > list_tokens -u
meterpreter > ..
meterpreter > impersonate_token <token> # eg: domain\\administrator
meterpreter > ..
meterpreter > getuid # To confirm impersonation
meterpreter > ..
meterpreter > rev2self # To revert back to the original state at spawn
meterpreter > ..
```

Tokens can have varying privileges in a given system/network. Even if you manage impersonate a domain admin, you wont be to dump local SAM of the current machine if the token does not have privileges on the current machine, but the same token might work elsewhere such as dumping domain credentials by pointing the command towards the Domain Controller.

There are several other ways of carrying out this attack as mentioned below;
- [Windows Privilege Escalation - Token Impersonation](https://steflan-security.com/linux-privilege-escalation-token-impersonation/#:~:text=Token%20impersonation%20is%20a%20technique,execute%20commands%20as%20that%20user.)

### Defensive measures
- Limit user/group token creation permissions
- Account tiering
- Local admin restriction

