## Subnet
#Networking 
> A subnetwork or subnet is a logical subdivision of an IP network. The practice of dividing a network into two or more networks is called subnetting. Computers that belong to the same subnet are addressed with an identical most-significant bit-group in their [IP addresses](1.%20IP%20Address).

Subnetting is done to group devices in a network for the ease of identification. Subnet mask (Network mask) can be used to determine the host count and some more information which can be useful during a pentest.

For an example lets take a simple IP address from a home network;
```
192.168.8.101
```
In a home network, usually the first 3 octets are static and addresses are uniquely assigned using the the 4th octet. Which means this IP network has a range starting from `192.168.8.0` to `192.168.8.255`, a total of **256** IPs. *(From these 256 IPs, only **254** are usable by other devices because the first and the last IPs are reserved for Network ID and Broadcast ID respectively. This applies to any IP Network range.)* So the subnet mask for this network is;
```
255.255.255.0
```
alternatively [CIDR](https://whatismyipaddress.com/cidr) notation can be used to represent for the same purpose as well;
```
192.168.8.0/24
```
**/24** represents the number of active/static bits. As we have 3 static octets (1 octet = 8 bits), theres 24 static bits in the IP Network range.

More about subnetting;
- [Professor Messer - Seven Second Subnetting](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZxAwQB8TZsM)
- [Subnet Cheat Sheet by @thecybermentor](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1ETKH31-E7G-7ntEOlWGZcDZWuukmeHFe/edit#gid=1394237865)
